README.md, before:

# iroha2-block-explorer-web

This repository is managed by Terraform!

## Build

Node v14+ required.

```bash
npm i
npm build
```

Build artifacts will be located at `dist` dir.

### Docker

`Dockerfile` with `nginx.conf` are also provided. Based on [Deployment > Docker (nginx)](https://cli.vuejs.org/guide/deployment.html#docker-nginx).

## Development

### Connecting to a BCE backend

One may want to see to see how the backend responds in the real time,
but pointing the API endpoint directly in the `VITE_API_URL` property of an `.env` file
would lead to a lot of errors like this one:

    Access to fetch at 'http://localhost:port_A/...' from origin 'http://localhost:port_B' has been blocked by CORS policy: No 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' header is present on the requested resource. If an opaque response serves your needs, set the request's mode to 'no-cors' to fetch the resource with CORS disabled.

Vite can be configured to proxy the responses.

So, we first return to the `.env` file and configure `VITE_API_URL` property as `http://localhost:5173/api-proxy`, if our `dev` shows the port as 5173.

Then we go to the Vite configuration in `vite.config.js` and add a new part in our `defineConfig` section,
where our `target` points to the host and the port of our BCE backend instance.

```js
  server: {
    proxy: {
      '/api-proxy': {
        target: 'http://127.0.0.1:4000',
        changeOrigin: true,
        secure: false,
        ws: false,
        rewrite: (path) => '/api/v1' + path.replace(/api-proxy\//, ''),
      },
    },
  },
```

Commit message:

[documentation] Env file note
Signed-off-by: 6r1d <vic.6r1d@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# iroha2-block-explorer-web

This repository is managed by Terraform!

## Build

Node v14+ required.

```bash
npm i
npm build
```

Build artifacts will be located at `dist` dir.

### Docker

`Dockerfile` with `nginx.conf` are also provided. Based on [Deployment > Docker (nginx)](https://cli.vuejs.org/guide/deployment.html#docker-nginx).

## Development

### Setting up the `.env` file

You need a file with environment variables to configure Vite for the frontend to properly request either mock data or interact with the backend.

To enable the mocks, write:

```
VITE_FAKE_API_ENABLED=TRUE
```

To interact with the backend, assuming you'll add an API proxy as described below, write:

```
VITE_API_URL=http://localhost:5173/api-proxy
VITE_FAKE_API_ENABLED=FALSE
```

### Connecting to a BCE backend

One may want to see to see how the backend responds in the real time,
but pointing the API endpoint directly in the `VITE_API_URL` property of an `.env` file
would lead to a lot of errors like this one:

    Access to fetch at 'http://localhost:port_A/...' from origin 'http://localhost:port_B' has been blocked by CORS policy: No 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' header is present on the requested resource. If an opaque response serves your needs, set the request's mode to 'no-cors' to fetch the resource with CORS disabled.

Vite can be configured to proxy the responses.

So, we first return to the `.env` file and configure `VITE_API_URL` property as `http://localhost:5173/api-proxy`, if our `dev` shows the port as 5173.

Then we go to the Vite configuration in `vite.config.js` and add a new part in our `defineConfig` section,
where our `target` points to the host and the port of our BCE backend instance.

```js
  server: {
    proxy: {
      '/api-proxy': {
        target: 'http://127.0.0.1:4000',
        changeOrigin: true,
        secure: false,
        ws: false,
        rewrite: (path) => '/api/v1' + path.replace(/api-proxy\//, ''),
      },
    },
  },
```
